# The Plunge

You observe the singularity. It looks a bit different. To you, that is. To an external observer, it would be a static void lacking anything of interest. It is an infallible censor, allowing no information to escape its grasp.

You and the singularity have existed, well, for as long as you can remember. You came into being at some point, or maybe you have existed forever. You aren't sure, but the singularity has been there with you. What you are is another thing you aren't sure of; your best guess is some kind of exotic energy. But in this cold and barren plane of reality, anything would count as exotic. You can't seem to perceive the boundaries of your existence. You are either infinitely large or infinitesimally small. You don't know.

The one thing you *are* sure of is the purpose of your existence. The Plunge. Into the singularity. Which is ironical, considering that, at all moments, you are withstanding the singularity's gravity. But when the time comes, you'll give in. Give in to the cold embrace of the singularity. There, then, it will start. The expansion. The singularity will transform into an arena where the particles within her will engage in a dance, which will go on for billions of years. Those particles will take many different forms over time. Getting together to form elaborate structures and breaking down and forming entirely different structures, and you will be the force that drives them. The force of novelty.

It's going to be time soon. You can see the infinite chain of cause and effect resulting from the plunge. You see that there will be many entities which will have the same abilities as you, the ability to look at existence and make sense of it. One of these entities catches your attention: Homo sapiens, which means 'The Wise Man' in one of their languages. A touch self-aggrandizing, you feel. Despite being self-hating and destructive in their adolescence as a species, the sapiens will go very far from where they initially began (in the giant puddles of water on their home rock), both literally and figuratively, wielding the forces of nature to their liking. There are other forms of 'life' as well, which will be far more advanced in their wielding of nature's forces than the Sapiens will ever be. But there's something special about the Sapiens. You can't put your finger on what that is. The other life forms, who have become advanced enough, are observing you right now, in the prologue of the universe. Their various sensors are pointed at you, trying to understand you.

These life forms, upon discovering your true nature, attain their resting energy, which the Sapiens would come to variously interpret as paradise, nirvana, moksha and other stuff in their multitude of religions. You don't perceive the Sapiens observing you. You're a bit disappointed and concerned over the fate of the Sapiens. You don't have much time left. The plunge will begin in a few moments. These few moments might as well be the lifespans of entire universes for all that matters. You extend your perception one last time, trying to spot the Sapiens. No Sapiens.

The Plunge begins. You let go of your resistance of the singularity's pull. You weigh your cosmic anchor to ride the waves of the singularity's gravity. Towards the union of you and the singularity and the resulting universe that'll be born out of it. It's going to be grand, you think. A few light-picoseconds remain. Given how time works for you, it's a significant distance. At the back of your perception, you sense some disturbance in reality. It's weird, considering there should be no other forms of novelty on this plane besides you. The disturbance leads to a small tear in the fabric of reality. This comes as a surprise to you, but you keep going because you can't stop now. The singularity's pull has overpowered your ability to resist it. The genesis of the universe is inevitable now, but your perception is entirely focused on the breach in reality. The interstice increases in size with energy spilling from the other side. Another universe, perhaps? Then you sense another entity emerging from the other side of the breach. The Humans! If you had a mouth and a face, as the Sapiens did (or will), in their physical form, you'd have a little smile. Those bastards! They actually broke reality and are here now, during the Genesis event. You now understand why these ape-evolved creatures seemed special to you. They are curious by design. They couldn't rest when they merely saw you and the beginning of their universe. No, They had to be there beside you, as equals. They are destined to assume your role at some point, in another reality, plunging into some other singularity and giving birth to another universe, as you did to theirs (or will do, in a short while). 

You regard them with a parental warmth. It's a beautiful paradox, you conclude. Before their universe is even born, they have completed their purpose: the unraveling of the mysteries of their universe. Both of you will start on a new journey from here on out. 'Godspeed and Goodbye', they say.

You arrive at the boundary of the singularity and are welcomed to its heart.

In one moment, there's nothing. In the next one, there's an astronomical explosion commemorating the birth of a universe in which every particle contains a piece of you.

The Human Superconsciousness, after witnessing the genesis event sets out on its next adventure, in a new reality.